# Beginner-Data-Analyst-Resume
Herein is a sample of a data analyst resume that one can use to apply for data analyst roles
As a beginner in the data world, a lot of things are often bleak. You barely have an understanding of multiple concepts. However, the mere imagination of the power of data and its great influence in diverse fields ranging from politics to the weather propels your desire to dive into the world of data. Now, data scientist, data analyst or data engineer? You can barely differentiate the three, not to mention initials like MLOPs. Luckily, you get through introductory boot camps and you are way beyond print "Hello World". You can do EDA's, are familiar with BS4, Scikit-learn and can now build projects. Confidence becomes your surname and you want to apply for your first role as a junior data analyst. You need a resume. It has to be a page short. Succinct! How do you go about that?
Navigating through a blank MS Word Worksheet
Knowing what subsections to create and the order with which to list them in your resume is essential. A professional summary in a tech resume won't be a necessity as compared to a projects subsection. Your education background too won't be as relevant as your work experience with tech related companies that made use of relevant tools to your field. As a beginner, you barely have any field related experience and your projects subsection should be proof of activity in the data analyst world. This means you should be able to provide links to your GitHub account for each project mentioned in the resume. Where applicable, add a portfolio link to a website with a history of projects that you have worked on. This gives an easier time for employers to access your technical skills. Another important subsection that can be placed at the topmost part of your one page resume is the skills subsection. While indicating your skills, you can further include specific packages and libraries utilized within a particular software indicated.
